Task 1: A list of cryptographic algorithms is shown below:

DES
3DES
AES
RSA

In this task, the group is required to implement the cryptographic algorithms mentioned above, and to step-by-step (for
each round) show and explain the changes happen to plaintext followed by the ciphertext after the first round. More
specifically, each group is required to narrow down the functionality of cryptographic algorithms mentioned earlier
using the provided plaintext below:


“When the National Security Agency's invincible code-breaking machine encounters a mysterious code it cannot break, the
agency calls its head cryptographer, Susan Fletcher, a brilliant and beautiful mathematician. What she uncovers sends
shock waves through the corridors of power. The NSA is being held hostage... not by guns or bombs, but by a code so
ingeniously complex that if released it would cripple U.S. intelligence.” (Digital Fortress, DAN Brown,
2004)                                (4 * 10 = 40 marks)

Task 2: Clearly, each cryptographic algorithm comes with a set of weaknesses and strengths. Therefore, the following
shows a list of performance measures to evaluate the performance of each algorithm in this assignment:
Encryption Time, Decryption Time, Memory Utilisation and the Avalanche Effect.

You are required to quantitatively analyse and compare
the performance of the aforementioned cryptographic algorithm using the given performance
measures.
(4 * 10 = 40 marks)


Part 2                 (60 marks)
In this part, you are required to complete the following tasks :

Task 1: Choose one of the cryptographic algorithms mentioned above and determine the influential parameters on the
Avalanche Effect. More specifically, you are required to conduct comprehensive research on the Avalanche Effect and the
parameters that directly impact on the Avalanche Effect value for the chosen cryptographic
algorithm.                                                                 (20 marks)

Task 2:  You are also required to use the determined influential parameters in order to propose an approach to enhance
the Avalanche Effect value for the chosen cryptographic algorithm. To successfully accomplish this task, you are
required to implement your proposed approach, gather all data and evidently show that the proposed approach has
improved the Avalanche Effect value.                                             (40 marks)